Now, I'm sure that you've seen a lot of movies
recently about Vietnam. How do you feel they
portray the experience? Movies like The Deer
Hunter and Apocalypse Now and Platoon and Full
Metal Jacket, those types of movies, how do they
portray what you saw and how do you think that's
experienced? Well, let's see. About ten years ago
is when I first saw The Deer Hunter and Apocalypse
Now.
I remember going to Apocalypse Now with my son
Roland one night when I was very tired, and I
remember sleeping through part of it, so I don't
know that I really ever understood it. But it
seemed to me that it was probably, there was a lot
more imagery in the movie than truth.
It seemed to me that the movie was about a very
unusual individual and the ways that he went about
dealing with the problem. and I don't think I
really know very much about that part of it. The
Deer Hunter, I remember seeing it, and it was a very
gripping movie. I had been told about it by another
friend of mine who was also a doctor in Vietnam, and
he described how it made him feel, and then when I
went to the movie, it made me feel exactly the same
way. And I think the gripping thing about it was was
how Poorly, the American soldier was treated when
he got back home after he was there doing the best
job he possibly could. His country really treated
him
almost like an outlaw or something. They treated
him inferiorly, I believe. They didn't treat him
like returning heroes or returning patriots at
all. And I think many of the guys like were kind of
portrayed in the movie in terms of drinking and
other ways of just kind of hiding their disbelief
that their country had sort of disowned them for
going over there and doing their job. I remember
several scenes I think in the Deer Slayer that were
very gripping where they were playing Russian
roulette.
And I think that person's mind had already sort of
degenerated to the point where he really didn't
care whether he came back home or not. He was going
to make a lot of money if he possibly could doing
whatever he was doing there, and it may not have
been legal. But, you know, he really didn't have
any desire to come back home, even though his
friends were looking for him. Did you ever see any
people like that where you were getting on? No, I
don't think so. I never... I never was around the
bigger cities where people could stay for a long
period of time. Like in July, I mean, sorry, in
Saigon, there were many civilians who went to
Saigon and just worked for
companies in building trades and that sort of
thing. They would stay there for years and I think
many of them maybe began to feel like this and they
didn't have any desire to come back home at all.
Most of the soldiers I saw were only there for a
year, and then they rotated back, and I don't think
that they commonly felt quite as badly. Most
movies seem to be over-portrayed in order to make a
point on certain feelings and that sort of thing,
and I think Deer Slayer did that. Platoon, I think,
was one of the most accurately filmed movies up to
its time, and I think it did very accurately
portray the way particularly infantry men,
looked at the war, how they looked at the
Vietnamese, how they looked at each other, how
they many times hated their superior sergeant or
captain or major or whoever who was making them do
things that many times didn't seem logical or
human, humane even.
It's Caitlin, what? Patient Ken Fabisi. Oh, okay.
Now, while you were over there, did you notice any
of the drug problems, or do you think those came
about later on, and why do you think that came
about? Well, I have an opinion on it. While I was
there, I didn't see very many drug problems. We
occasionally would catch a guy smoking
marijuana, which was illegal, and he would be
given, usually in Article 15, which was either a
fine or some detention or some extra work or
something like that. The Vietnamese had it though
all the time and they were smoking it around on our
posts where they were. And I remember numerous
times smelling it because it had a very stinky
odor. But I never actually saw any marijuana being
sold or passed around. Once or twice we had some
hoopla going on in a camp when some sergeant would
think some of his guys were smoking it and we would
have a sneak inspection of their barracks and all
that sort of thing out of the tents. And I don't
recall where we ever found anything that was
significant nature. The people that I work with,
though, were very high caliber people and tended
to have plenty to do and weren't really bored
because we were running a medical facility. They
were either like nurses, corpsman, x-ray
technicians, medical technicians, or
assistants to the dentist, or they were cooking
for the unit or something. They were never really
sitting around with nothing to do. We all had jobs
to do. So I don't think I saw,
saw it more than twice in the six months I was at this
facility. It was never a problem anywhere I was at
during the whole year I was there because I think
everybody was busy. And they wanted to be under
control of their own mental facilities. And I
think a druggie would have been gotten rid of by his
own mate simply because they couldn't trust him
anymore. And most guys didn't want somebody
around they couldn't trust because it was
dangerous. And
the war was still actively going on in 68, 69. And I
think shortly after that, when they were trying to
turn the program over to the Vietnamese, And the
American soldier didn't have very much to do.
There wasn't very much activity going on. That's
when the drugs became more of a problem. And that
was a 69, 70, 71 problem. Okay. Now, you know, as a
mature adult, you've been around, and that's kind
of realized what, you know, do you now think that
you know a lot more about why you went to Vietnam,
why things were done the way they were, things like
that? Are you still just kind of? I'm still kind of
in limbo about all that. I don't really know any
more about it than I did then, even though I've made
some attempts to study it. I'm not sure anybody
knows why we were in Vietnam. From a medical
standpoint, I was there doing a job taking care of
the fighting soldier and I did a good job at that. I
liked what I did and I felt good about taking care of
the fighting men. I saw a lot of activity, both from
the war standpoint and from the medical
standpoint. And we had extremely good medical
facilities. Our soldiers had as good a medical
care as there was in the world at the time. And I
still don't have any idea really why we were there
because it didn't make sense to me while I was there
and it doesn't make sense to me right now either. I
just don't think we had a real purpose when we went
there. And I don't know what how the decision was
made to get us started there to start with, but I
think it was kind of ill-founded.
You know, today looking back, do you feel that your
experience in Vietnam changed you in any way?
Well, probably so. I think my experience in
Vietnam made me appreciate the United States for
what it is a lot more. I've certainly been much more
patriotic since I came back. I was patriotic when I
left, but I feel much more strongly that the United
States is still the best country in the world and
the best country that the world has ever had,
present on its face actually. I still believe
strongly that the American people are the best
group of people anywhere and that they can always
be counted upon to do their job when they're asked
to under the right circumstances. So I really
think it changed me for the good because it helped
me mature earlier and quicker I think in many ways.
I learned an awful lot there from a medical
surgical standpoint and I also had a fair amount of
administrative experience there so it really
helped me be prepared I think to do jobs that I had to
do as a hospital chief of surgery or chief of staff
or some of the jobs that we had to do as doctors in a
civilian hospital. And I think it was a very
positive experience for me the year that I spent
there, actually.